Children must leave their parents as soon as possible to become truly independent. April 13th, 2014. Opposition. 

Good evening honorable members of the house, chairman and members of the proposition team. As it was said, our motion for today is "Children must leave their parents as soon as possible to become truly independent". A lot of children think that leaving their parents is a “silver bullet” that would solve their childish problems, but they do not understand that leaving is the consequence of becoming independent and not the cause. What I’m going to do now is to show that becoming financial, lifestyle and way of thinking independent can be done without leaving. So let's get started.

Let’s begin with financial independence. It is one of the most common problems when impulsive child leave parents. He or she can’t understand that from now food & rent should be paid by oneself and the savings has tendency to disappear. Work should be found before leaving otherwise the need to earn a living will make child to work half-time at low-qualified job. It will distract child from education and in the long term it will strongly tie to this type of work. 
Can’t child find a job without leaving parents? Definitely! It is absolutely typical to find a job and work as much as it convenient for a child and not as much as he or she had to. And I also want to point out that if rent is paid by parents the child it is not independent.

Secondly, let’s talk about lifestyle independence. A lot of rebel children feel restricted and want to do absolutely opposite. But what do they want to do? Going to parties every night? Until 18 it is forbidden by the law and not by parents. Maybe, staying overnight with friends? Well, it is not about independence, it is about respect to parents and the ability to negotiate with them. What can they do if child (according to the first point) already earn a living by oneself? Corporal punishment is not so common nowadays but even if parents have practiced it earlier now child with a job becomes equal member of the family. 
You should always remember that parents are not a jailers and child is always free to come to agreement with them. Mature child understands that family’s lifestyle was adopted for raising him or her and it is up to child to change it because he or she has already grown. It will also prepare child to situations in life when running away is not an option and negotiations is the only solution.

Let’s finish with independence of thinking. Parents are not Thought Police from 1984 and they are still free to plan their own life and act correspondingly. Parents can’t force child to choose where he or she would study after school or where to work. They also can’t control neither child’s global views like politics nor everyday preferences like shampoo or toothpaste. 
You should always remember that parents are not strangers and they do care about their child. And they also were children and they know that feeling of dependence and promised themselves to free their child from it. 

Let’s sum up what I’ve already said. During the growing child should step by step remove the dependencies and finally make living at parent’s flat or house looking like a renting. It is up to child to become financially independent and as the result to deserve independence in lifestyle, in thinking and acting. Leaving parents is not the cause, but the consequence of maturing.

That’s all. Thank you for your attention.

// Independence: free from outside control; not depending on another’s authority. Not depending on another for livelihood or subsistence. (Source: Oxford American Dictionary)
