Humanistic approach is the future of education. March 22th, 2014. Opposition. Win.

Good afternoon honorable members of the house, chairman and the members of the proposition team. As it was said our motion for today is "Humanistic approach (HA) is the future of education". HA tells us that education program should be adjusted for each person, chosen by one selves, and rights of teacher and pupils should be the same. What I'm going to do now is to show that this approach is not fully applicable neither in kindergarten, school and university. So let's get started.

Let's begin with kindergarten. Kids can't be treated as adults. It grows narcissism. They would think that they are already equal to the older people and they don't need to do anything for that. It was given to them by birth. Also, they would not have motivation to improve their skills and knowledge. If we apply this approach we'll prevent forming the fundamentals that are so needed in future life. If we don't want to violate their rights, all pupil should be treated the same. We all understand that it means that the chosen grade would be the lowest. It'll decrease the equality of education and could lead to major troubles.

Let's look at education in school. What we can't do is to give pupils in school an ability to choose their study plan. They have lack of experience and false values. They'll choose subjects for immediate joy like physical training or painting. Even if short course like math or history would be selected, the lack of tasks would not improve their skills. School boys & girls are interested in looking like grown-up , behaving like a grown-up. They can't see that the real difference is highly depends from education base.

Let's finish with education in universities. Main problem of applying it there is the lack of high qualified teachers. If we are talking about applied sciences, most valuable teachers are thou who earn a living with knowledge they are teaching. They are too busy for working individually with every student and it is student's problem to get as much as he or she could. They are not children and they are old enough to work for themselves.

To sum up, HA is not applicable for kindergarten because they would not understand that they should make efforts to be valued in real world society; in schools boys and girls don't know what they are going to do and how to achieve that until they finish standard school program. It is not applicable in universities too because high level specialists don't have and would never have enough time for individual education. That's why HA can't be the future of education.

Thank you for your attention.
