Apple is a religion. March 15th, 2014. Opposition. Draw.

Good afternoon honorable members of the house, chairman and members of the opposition team. 

As it was said, our motion for today is called "Apple is a religion". Of course, you all heard about this company. They create top class phones and computers and they ask a lot of money for them especially in Russia. What I'm going to do now is to show that Apple is a coUturiEre in IT world and I think you agree that we can't call every fashion house a new religion. So, as usual, let's get started.

Let's see what it gives to society. I already said it creates devices and software. It creates material products and its area of interests is limited to it. Well, its products may help people during the day and they could be so easy to use that people would be pleased when they are using it. But people are also pleased when they eat tasty food, wear comfortable clothes and drive high-end cars. People use iPhone as a phone and MacBook as a notebook. There is nothing special about it. There is no material or theoretical thing that people use for the reason that religion exists. Apple is not answering the question whether life after death exists and doesn't help to overcome a blow during difficulties in life. Apple is not used by politicians to justify their acts. Apple does not fulfill religious functions. 

Well, how do they look like? Couple of weeks ago there was a telecast on "Science 2.0" telling that Apple Retail Stores are like temples. Their devices are objects of worship and their sales assistants are pastors. Well, we can see exactly the same in large brand shops. Assistants do whatever they could to convince people to leave the shop with a purchase. The process and the goal is absolutely the same. Stores maybe a little more comfortable but it is just mixing shop and 5-stars hotel. It's just a marketing trick because now clients are picky and capricious. 
By the way I want to point out that Apple organizes fashion parAde twice a year named Apple Special Event. They do sell tickets for this event so a humble person couldn't come there for free. One part of the people is journalists whose goal is to publish article as soon as possible to promote their magazine or blog. Another part formed from IT specialists who want to clone Apple's device, existing software or to develop new one to fill the gap. 

My final subtopic is reasons. Why does Apple do it? The reason is profit which reasonably prevails in commercial organizations. They are not interested in helping people. You won't remember that you are using Apple until they release updated version or brand new device. They are not interested in people in the meantime. Only twice a year. You may think that their goal to dominate on the market looks like having the only religion for the whole world. It's not true because companies Microsoft, Google, Facebook and Vk have the same intention. 

To sum up, Apple does not fulfill religious functions; it looks like coUturiEre and acts correspondingly. The sole reason Apple does everything is the commercial one, which is the same for all commercial organizations. We can't call every fashion house a new religion and the same is applicable to Apple.


Thank you for your attention.
